content/posts/basic-rules-for-walking-in-the-mountains.md, before:

---
title: 'Data-Driven Development - Develop software based on evidence, not opinions'
date: '2018-01-09'
thumb_img_path: images/6.jpg
thumb_img_alt: Hikers on the trail
content_img_path: images/6.jpg
content_img_alt: Hikers on the trail
excerpt: >-
  When companies develop software products, it is rather common that the
  decisions regarding the implementation of new features is done based on
  different people's opinions. However, this can lead to suboptimal results. It
  is more efficient to lead development work based on data - this is called
  data-driven development.
layout: post
---

Photo by [David Marcu.](https://unsplash.com/photos/wcHCzgo0_mQ)

In the United States, Canada, the Republic of Ireland, and United Kingdom, **hiking** refers to walking outdoors on a trail, or off trail, for recreational purposes. A day hike refers to a hike that can be completed in a single day. However, in the United Kingdom, the word walking is also used, as well as rambling, while walking in mountainous areas is called hillwalking. In Northern England, Including the Lake District and Yorkshire Dales, fellwalking describes hill or mountain walks, as fell is the common word for both features there.

Hiking can sometimes involves bushwhacking and hiking is sometimes referred to as such. This specifically refers to difficult walking through dense forest, undergrowth, or bushes, where forward progress requires pushing vegetation aside. In extreme cases of bushwhacking, where the vegetation is so dense that human passage is impeded, a machete is used to clear a pathway. The Australian term bushwalking refers to both on and off-trail hiking. Common terms for hiking used by [New Zealanders](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Zealand) are tramping (particularly for overnight and longer trips), walking or bushwalking. Trekking is the preferred word used to describe multi-day hiking in the mountainous regions of India, Pakistan, Nepal, North America, South America, Iran and in the highlands of East Africa. Hiking a long-distance trail from end-to-end is also referred to as trekking and as thru-hiking in some places. In North America, multi-day hikes, usually with camping, are referred to as [backpacking](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Backpacking_(wilderness)).

## Long Distance Hiking

Frequently nowadays long distance hikes (walking tours) are undertaken along long distance paths, including the National Trails in England and Wales, the National Trail System in the USA and The Grande Randonnée (France), Grote Routepaden, or Lange-afstand-wandelpaden (Holland), Grande Rota (Portugal), Gran Recorrido (Spain) is a network of long-distance footpaths in Europe, mostly in France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Spain. There are extensive networks in other European countries of long distance trails, as well as in Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Nepal, and to a lesser extent other Asiatic countries, like Turkey, Israel, and Jordan. In the Alps of Austria, Slovenia, Switzerland, Germany, France, and Italy walking tours are often made from 'hut-to-hut', using an extensive system of mountain huts.

In the late 20th-century there has been a proliferation of official and unofficial long distance routes, which mean that hikers now are more likely to refer to using a long distance way (Britain), trail (USA), The Grande Randonnée (France), etc., than setting out on a walking tour. Early examples of long distance paths, include the Appalachian Trail in the USA and the Pennine Way in Britain. Pilgrimage routes are now treated, by some walkers, as long distance routes, and the route taken by the British National Trail the North Downs Way closely follows that of the Pilgrims' Way to Canterbury. Hiking times can be estimated by Naismith's rule or Tobler's hiking function.

## Equipment

The equipment required for hiking depends on the length of the hike, but day hikers generally carry at least water, food, a map, and rain-proof gear. Hikers usually wear sturdy hiking boots for mountain walking and backpacking, as protection from the rough terrain, as well as providing increased stability. The Mountaineers club recommends a list of "Ten Essentials" equipment for hiking, including a compass, sunglasses, sunscreen, a flashlight, a first aid kit, a fire starter, and a knife. Other groups recommend items such as hat, gloves, insect repellent, and an emergency blanket. A GPS navigation device can also be helpful and route cards may be used as a guide.

> Returning home is the most difficult part of long-distance hiking; You have grown outside the puzzle and your piece no longer fits. ― Cindy Ross

Proponents of ultralight backpacking argue that long lists of required items for multi-day hikes increases pack weight, and hence fatigue and the chance of injury. Instead, they recommend reducing pack weight, in order to make hiking long distances easier. Even the use of hiking boots on long-distances hikes is controversial among ultralight hikers, because of their weight.

## Environmental Impact

Natural environments are often fragile, and may be accidentally damaged, especially when a large number of hikers are involved. For example, years of gathering wood can strip an alpine area of valuable nutrients. and some species, such as martens or bighorn sheep, are very sensitive to the presence of humans, especially around mating season. Generally, protected areas such as parks have regulations in place to protect the environment, so as to minimize such impact. Such regulations include banning wood fires, restricting camping to established camp sites, disposing or packing out faecal matter, and imposing a quota on the number of hikers. Many hikers espouse the philosophy of Leave No Trace, following strict practices on dealing with food waste, food packaging, and other impact on the environment.

Human waste is often a major source of environmental impact from hiking, and can contaminate the watershed and make other hikers ill. 'Catholes' dug 10 to 25 cm (4 to 10 inches) deep, depending on local soil composition and covered after use, at least 60 m (200 feet) away from water sources and trails, are recommended to reduce the risk of bacterial contamination. [Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hiking)

Commit message:

basic-rules-for-walking-in-the-mountains.md: updated markdown_content

content/posts/basic-rules-for-walking-in-the-mountains.md, after:

---
title: 'Data-Driven Development - Develop software based on evidence, not opinions'
date: '2018-01-09'
thumb_img_path: images/6.jpg
thumb_img_alt: Hikers on the trail
content_img_path: images/6.jpg
content_img_alt: Hikers on the trail
excerpt: >-
  When companies develop software products, it is rather common that the
  decisions regarding the implementation of new features is done based on
  different people's opinions. However, this can lead to suboptimal results. It
  is more efficient to lead development work based on data - this is called
  data-driven development.
layout: post
---
When companies develop software products, it is rather common that 
the decisions regarding the implementation of new features is done based
 on different people's opinions.

**In practice the situation in the company can go like this:**

**Developer A**: The customer wants to somehow access the product search 
easier. How should we make the search feature more accessible?

**Developer B**: Let's have the search bar on the top of the header, where it is pretty much the first thing that can be seen!

**Developer C**: How about having a striking button that opens a modal where the search can be performed!?

**Product Owner**: Back in the day, we solved this problem like this: 
\[some suboptimal solution that works, but is not what the customer 
necessary wants or means (for example the search box is fixed to the web
 page where it can distract the users)]. Let's do it this way!

**Developers A, B and C**: Okay, let's go with that...

This kind of decision making can lead to **suboptimal** solutions where 
time is wasted on developing features that the customer doesn't want or 
need. It is easy to make decisions based on opinions - by quickly 
selecting a certain solution the work can start fast and an illusion of 
efficient software development is created.

Luckily, the modern trends of software development like Continuous 
Integration and Delivery (CI / CD) make it possible to develop software 
with a new, data-driven approach.

Below, you can see the HYPEX model (Bosch and Olsson 2014) that addresses the process of data-driven development. It involves many interesting concepts like MVF (Minimum Viable Feature).



![](/images/hypex.png)



References:

Olsson, H., Bosch, J., 2014. The HYPEX Model: From Opinions to Data-Driven Software Development 155–164. <https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-11283-1-13>
